# Lunar crater counting using Convolutional Networks

This repo contains the essential pieces of code to train a convnet to recognize craters on the moon. 

# Getting the Data
Create a folder on your home directory to house all your data. By default this repo contains the folder 'dataset' for this purpose. This will correspond to the ‘dir’ variable in run_moon_convnet_model.py

From /scratch/r/rein/silburt/ on scinet, get the following numpy files, and copy them to the following folders within the ‘dir’ directory:

*File*	->			*Folder within ‘dir’*  
train_data.npy   	->	Train_rings/  
train_target.npy   	-> 	Train_rings/  
dev_data.npy		->	Dev_rings/  
dev_target.npy		->	Dev_rings/  
test_data.npy		->	Test_rings/  
test_target.npy		->	Test_rings/  
custom_loss_csvs.npy	->	Dev_rings_for_loss/  
custom_loss_images.npy	->	Dev_rings_for_loss/  

# Running the Code
All the code is contained within run_moon_convnet_model.py. Before running the code one must first load the following modules/virtual environments:
module load gcc/6.2.1 

module load cuda/8.0

source /home/k/kristen/kristen/keras_venv_P8.v2/bin/activate 

To execute the code, use the following kind of command: CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=2 nohup python run_moon_convnet_model.py > output.txt &

First make sure that the chosen CUDA device is available by doing 'nvidia-smi'.

Within run_moon_convnet_model.py, all the main parameters that you might want to change is at the bottom of the script, under the __main__ function. These parameters have explanations given. 

In addition, if you want to iterate over parameters (i.e. run a grid search), look for:

########## Parameters to Iterate Over ########## 

I’ve given a simple example of how to do this in the code. These variables must always be lists, even if you only want to run one model. As it currently stands, it will save models for every set of parameters you iterate over. Look for model.save() within the train_and_test_model() function and make sure that the name assigned to each model is unique so that models wont get overwritten as you iterate.

# Generating/Analyzing model predictions
Once you have created a model, you might want to analyze new predictions. This can be done using rings_analyze_remote.py, which allows you to generate model predictions on scinet, and then analyze them on your local system. 
Step 1 - On scinet, place the desired models in the models/ folder (by default models generated by run_moon_convnet_model.py are placed here). Add the name of the model to the 'models' array in the argument list at the bottom of rings_analyze_remote.py
Step 2 - Set the other parameters and run the script rings_analyze_remote.py on scinet.
Step 3 - Copy the generated predictions (in the form of numpy arrays) to your local machine.
Step 4 - Open up rings_analyze_remote.ipynb and execute the cells to analyze the predictions locally. 
